---
layout: blog
title: Customer support teams: We can do better
---

# Customer support teams: We can do better

I recently upgraded my chat client (Adium) on my laptop. The application
was flat out broken, with a black screen instead of a contact list.

It was late, but I googled a bit and couldn't find a solution (granted, the update's only
been out 2 days) so I ended up tweeting the Adium team:

> @adium latest update was totally broken (contact list was a black screen). Any way to downgrade?

Their response:

> @allspiritseve This issue was reported before a while ago: http://forums.cocoaforge.com/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=23750#p131371

I think we can provide better customer support than this.

Let me preface this by saying: I'm not complaining about Adium's
response. They actually got back to me, and in a reasonable amount of
time. However, I think this type of response is typical for a lot of
companies these days. 

I'd love to see us take customer support to the next level, especially
given we have tools like Twitter at our fingertips.

## Your users don't care about making your application better, they just
want their copy to work.

I'm fairly technical, and could probably write a pretty detailed bug
   report that would be useful to Adium in solving the problem. But I
don't *want* to. I just want my chat client to work.

## Bug reporting is boring. Remove as many barriers as possible.

2. Telling anyone that submits a bug report that another bug report
   exists for the same problem discourages that person from ever
providing a bug report again. Bug reporting is boring, and generally has
little payoff. If someone does it, it's probably because they're a good
person and want to help out. Don't give them more barriers (like
checking *all* of the existing bug reports for a similar problem) before
posting. 

## Allow anonymous bug reports

3. Nobody wants to sign up for an account just to post a bug report. I
   should be able to add a comment to an existing bug report, and create
a new one, anonymously. If I want a followup, I'll gladly give you my
email address.

## Integrate better with Twitter

4. Twitter should be your support's best friend. The barrier to
   contacting you is so low that it's the easiest way to get in touch.
If I tweet a problem with your service, create a bug report from my
tweet. Every bug tracker should integrate with Twitter. In your response
to me, say you're looking into it, and give me a way to follow the
progress. Hell, just mention me when it's done! I would love that.

## Don't be lazy; take the time to give your customers *helpful* info.

5. Posting a link to an existing bug report is lazy. It's the equivalent
   of a forum post saying someone's already posted on this topic before.
Who cares? You might, but I sure don't. At the very least, link my bug
report to theirs. Even better, give me a short synopsis of where that
bug report stands. Is it solved? Do I need to do anything to fix my own
installation? Does it need more information, a +1, etc. Yes, I realize
customer support is a tough job. But the goal is to make your customers
happy, not to streamline your support process. If you treat my bug
report with respect, that makes me want to help you and your team.

I'd love to hear other ideas on this.

